# Questions regarding setup:

1. Q: How can I stop a running docker instance of Galaxy-GraphClust?

   A: If you are runnig the container in interactive mode (i.e. docker run -i) use `Ctrl+C`. To stop ALL docker instances on your computer you can run this command in terminal: `sudo docker stop $(sudo docker ps -a -q)`

2. Q: In my Ubuntu host system the container is running but constantly reports error: `could not connect to server: Connection refused`

   A0: For Ubuntu users we recommend to use 16.04 LTS version which is deleivered with Kernel 4.2 or higher.
   
   A1: Docker manager is tightly coupled with the host Linux kernel. Under certain Linux kernel the docker storage system might fail. 
   Please proceed with the following commands or contact you administrator:

  ```
  sudo apt update; sudo apt upgrade;
  sudo apt-get install linux-image-extra-$(uname -r)  linux-image-extra-virtual
  sudo modprobe aufs
  sudo service docker stop
  sudo rm -rf /var/lib/docker/overlay2
  sudo service docker restart
  ```
  For more information please check Docker documentation: https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/storagedriver/aufs-driver/
  
      
# Registration and Login: 
To have distinct history and workflows the Galaxy server requires each user to register for first access time. **By default anyone with access to the host network can register. No registration confirmation email will be sent to the given email.** So you can register with any custom (including non-existent) email address. There exist also a default Admin user [described here](https://bgruening.github.io/docker-galaxy-stable/users-passwords.html).  To change the default authorization settings please refer to the Galaxy Wiki section [Authentication](https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Develop/Authentication) 

* To register (first time only):
    * On top right of the panel goto **User→Register**
    * Provide a custom email address and password, confirm your password and enter a public name

* To login:
    * On top right of the panel goto **User→Login**
    * Provide your registered email address and password


3. Q: How can I do more rounds?

   A: To extend an existing workflow of GraphClust and add another round, you should run a workflow called Galaxy-Workflow-single_round_for_extension : [GraphClust_two](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BackofenLab/docker-galaxy-graphclust/master/workflows/Galaxy-Workflow-single_round_for_extension.ga)
The inputs for this workflow are the files generated by the GraphClust workflow. The names of each input corresponds to the name of the produced  file, so you should just choose from a dropdown selection a needed file. Important parameter for this workflow is the **round number**, which must be specified in **NSPDK_cancidateCluster**, **pgma_graphclust** and **cluster_collection_report** tools. 


